NEWS - OpenPrinting CUPS Filters v1.13.3 - 2017-01-18
-----------------------------------------------------

CHANGES IN V1.13.3

	- libcupsfilters: When auto-generating PPD files added support
	  for passing through JPEG input to printers which understand
	  JPEG. This is also done in CUPS-generated PPDs (Debian bug
	  #851499).
	- libcupsfilters: Added the "output-bin" option support from
	  CUPS' PPD generator to our PPD generator (CUPS Issue #4938).
	- cups-browsed: Make support for printers with IPv6 IP address
	  work. Both link-local and regular addresses work.

CHANGES IN V1.13.2

	- cupsfilters.drv: Corrected cupsFilter entry for the "Generic
	  IPP Everywhere Printer".
	- driverless: Fixes on the man page (Debian bug #849075).
	- driverless: Do not error-exit (non-zero status) when run by
	  CUPS as backend or PPD generator when no driverless printer
	  is found or Avahi not running. When run from thr command
	  line, exit status is the same as of ippfind.
	- imagetoraster: Removed (incomplete) PWG Raster support. For
	  PWG Raster output we let the rastertopwg filter from CUPS do
	  the finalization (mainly adding white pixels at the borders
	  to get a full-page bitmap).
	- imagetoraster: Fixed several bugs in the calculation of the
          page geometry (Debian bug #849380).
	- libcupsfilters: If the IPP-polled printer has the
	  "sides-supported" attribute, determine the need of a
	  "Duplex" option solely whether the attribute has a
	  "two-sided-long-edge" choice and ignore the "duplex"
	  parameter of the ppdCreateFromIPP() function call. This lets
	  the more precise information coming from the IPP query
	  always be preferred against information from the Bonjour
	  record.
	- driverless: When listing printers let the device ID contain
	  "AppleRaster" (for Apple Raster printers) and "PWGRaster"
	  (for IPP Everywhere printers) in the "CMD" field.
	- driverless: Added "-T 3" to the ippfind command line. This
	  makes ippfind search the Bonjour broadcasts for up to 3
	  seconds when searching for IPP printers, raising the
	  reliability in finding all of them (Debian bug #848712).

CHANGES IN V1.13.1

	- cups-browsed: Avoid erroring out when restarting after a
	  crash (with generated queues not deleted due to the crash)
	  and the configuration option
	  CreateRemoteCUPSPrinterQueues=No being set.
	- cups-browsed: If CUPS is stopped while cups-browsed is
          running and there are queue for IPP network printers (not
          remote CUPS queues) on restart of CUPS the still existing
          local CUPS queue is not correctly re-connected with
          cups-browsed and therefore gets removed after a
          timeout. This should be fixed after a clean-up of
          re-connecting with remaining queues from a previous session
          (Debian bug #848223).
	- cups-browsed: Generated queues did not get removed on
          shutdown (Debian bug #848167).
	- libcupsfilters: Let PPD generator for driverless printing
	  suppress page sizes which the printer reports more than
	  once (CUPS Issue #4933).
	- driverless, libcupsfilters: Make "driverless list" output
	  and output of driverless as CUPS backend in discovery mode
	  add the word "driverless" to its output, to make it easier
	  to set up driverless printers with printer setup tools.
	  Made the NickName of the generated PPDs also match with the
	  "driverless list" output.

CHANGES IN V1.13.0

	- cups-browsed: Use the httpGetAddr() only with CUPS 2.0.x or
	  newer, as older CUPS versions do not provide it (Bug #1381).
	- cups-browsed: Minor corrections in the handling of the data
	  records of the discovered printers.
	- rastertopdf, urftopdf: As with libcupsimage from CUPS 2.2.2
	  on rastertopdf also understands Apple Raster and much better
	  than urftopdf does, use rastertopdf for Apple Raster
	  (image/urf) input files then. Also allow for manually
	  choosing by the ./configure command line.
	- driverless: Added a CUPS backend mode to the driverless
	  utility. Running as a CUPS backend in discovery mode it
	  lists the IPP URIs of the suitable printers in printer setup
	  tools and in "lpinfo -v", as conneting via IPP is required
	  for driverless printing.

CHANGES IN V1.12.0

	- cups-browsed: Added new "CreateRemoteCUPSPrinterQueues"
	  directive to cups-browsed.conf, which allows to decide
	  whether to auto-create local print queues for shared CUPS
	  queues on remote machines. This way one can also set up
	  servers which only create queues for IPP network printers.
	- driverless: Added new /usr/lib/cups/driver/driverless
	  utility to make CUPS auto-generate PPD files for printers
	  designed for driverless use (IPP Everywhere, Apple Raster)
	  when they are set up with a printer setup tool. This gives
	  transparency to set up these printers with legacy printer
	  setup tools. This utility is also linked to /ustr/bin to
	  manually generate PPDs via command line.
	- libcupsfilters, cups-browsed: Moved the PPD generator for
	  IPP network printers from cups-browsed to libcupsfilters, so
	  that it can also be used by other utilities.
	- cups-browsed: When auto-generating a PPD set the cost values
	  in the filter lines to give the highest priority to PDF,
	  then PWG Raster, Apple Raster, PCL-XL, PostScript, PCL 5c/e.
	- cups-browsed: Synced the PPD generator with the one of CUPS,
	  giving the best possible support for IPP Everywhere and
	  AirPrint printers. Especially support for more media types
	  and for finishing units got added. Also support for more
	  different ways to represent the printer capabilities via
	  IPP attributes got added.
	- cups-browsed: Added support for auto setup of IPP printers
	  understanding the Apple Raster input data format (.urf, on
	  AirPrint printers), only if CUPS 2.2.2 is used, which can
	  generate this format via its rastertopwg filter.
	- cups-browsed: Added new "NewIPPPrinterQueuesShared"
	  directive to cups-browsed.conf, which allows to decide
	  whether the auto-created local print queue for a newly
	  discovered IPP network printer will be shared or not. For
	  printers discovered earlier, cups-browsed remembers the
	  previous setting.
	- cups-browsed: If a user changes the printer-is-shared bit of
	  an auto-created print queue for an IPP network printer (not
	  for a remote CUPS queue), record this fact and recover the
	  change when creating this queue in the next session.
	- cups-browsed: For automatic creation of print queues for IPP
	  network printers also allow only creating queues for IPP
	  Everywhere printers, only for Apple Raster printers, or for
	  both printer types designed for driverless printing and not
	  only for all suitable printers, configurable via the
	  CreateIPPPrinterQueues directive in cups-browsed.conf.

CHANGES IN V1.11.6

	- pdftops: Do not default to simply "pdftops" when calling the
	  Poppler pdftops utility, as the $PATH of CUPS when running
	  filters/backends starts with /usr/lib/cups/filter/ and then
	  pdftops would call itself (Bug #1380).

CHANGES IN V1.11.5

	- cups-browsed: Fixed several typos in the documentation (Bug
	  #1378).
	- gstoraster, mupdftoraster, pdftops, sys5ippprinter: Use
	  execvp() and execvpe() to call programs so that the $PATH
	  environment variable gets used to find the programs (Bug
	  #1378).
	- build system: Several fixes, especially to make it work when
	  cross-compiling or using a build server (Bug #1378).
	- cups-browsed: Silenced a warning.
	- cups-browsed: For remote CUPS queues with a dot in their
	  name no local queue got created (Bug #1379).
	- pdftopdf: Do the page logging also for IPP Everywhere
	  printers which use the PWG Raster data format as the
	  ...toraster filters being the last filter then do not log.
	- gstoraster, pdftoraster: Let filters generate PWG Raster if
          the environment variable FINAL_CONTENT_TYPE is set to
          image/pwg-raster, make sure full-page bitmaps are generated
          in PWG_raster mode, and added mime conversion rules for
          direct PWG Raster output.
	- cups-browsed: Corrected checking of the PDLs of an IPP network
	  printer. Now PCL 5c/e printers (not HP inkjets) should get
	  recognized correctly.
	- texttopdf: Added missing NULL check to avoid a segfault when
	  texttopdf does not find a suitable (monospace TTF) font.
	- foomatic-rip: Replace old manpage macro calls from
	  foomatic-filters 3.0.2-20050114.
	- cups-browsed: Allow changing BrowseInterval and
	  BrowseTimeout via cups-browsed.conf, as it was formerly with
	  CUPS (Debian bug #794655).
	- pdftopdf: Count the actual output pages also if the
	  number-up option is not used, to correctly find out whether
	  we have an even or odd number of pages, even if the
	  page-ranges option is used. This is needed to correctly
	  decide whether for duplex printing a blank page has to be
	  added (Bug #1377).

CHANGES IN V1.11.4

	- gstoraster: Allow Ghostscript to use the center-of-pixel
	  method instead of the PostScript-standard any-part-of-pixel
	  method when rendering filled paths. This improves the
	  graphics output quality of low-resolution printers like
	  label printers, for example to assure readability of bar
	  codes (Bug #1373).
	- cups-browsed: Fixes to avoid unneeded calls of
	  handle_cups_queues() and even infinite loops (Possible fix
	  for bug #1376). Also make sure that queues left over from
	  the previous cups-browsed session are integrated correctly.

CHANGES IN V1.11.3

	- cups-browsed: If a queue is not only discovered via Bonjour
	  but also via legacy CUPS or LDAP, prefer the Bonjour record
	  as it provides more information and there is also a defined
	  cancellation broadcast.
	- cups-browsed: Let PPD options saved in the last session also
	  get applied to generated PPDs for IPP network printers.
	- cups-browsed: Make sure that saved PPD options do not get
	  lost if for some reason the PPD file cannot be loaded in a
	  new cups-browsed session (or the loaded PPD file is
	  different).  This is done by holding a copy of the settings
	  in the remote printer data structure.
	- cups-browsed: When saving option settings, remove
	  backslashes added when the settings are read out via IPP
	  request. Otherwise the backslashes would double with each
	  session of cups-browsed.
	- implicitclass: Do not let the job get immediately retried on
	  failure to send it out to the remote CUPS printer. By
	  repeating to send the job to an unavailable server so
	  quickly, cups-browsed gets bombed with requests and hangs on
	  shutdown.
	- cups-browsed: Shortened timeouts of HTTP connections and IPP
	  requests to 3 seconds amd of IPP requests to remote CUPS
	  servers to 2 seconds. For local IPP requests always use the
	  connection once created via http_connect_local(). Also call
	  g_main_context_wakeup(NULL) after each
	  g_main_loop_quit(gmainloop) call. These measures should
	  reduce long hangs of cups-browsed on shutdown when a CUPS
	  server got unavailable.
	- cups-browsed: Do not mark remote printers discovered via
	  legacy CUPS broadcasts as disappeared right from the
	  beginning to implement the browse timeout. Instead manage
	  their expiring by introducing a flag which marks them as
	  CUPS legacy printers. Printers with disappeared status are
	  considered invalid in some situations, especially when
	  clusterin equally-named remote printers (Bug #1374).
	- cups-browsed: When we have remote CUPS printers, we use the
	  implicitclass backend and a local copy of the remote PPD
	  file already if we have only a single remote printer with
	  this queue name. This simplifies the management of remote
	  CUPS printers and also we do not hassle with using a remote
	  PPD file. Now one can change PPD option defaults with
	  printer setup tools or the lpadmin command and they get
	  preserved in the next cups-browsed sessions.
	- if we are using the implicitclass backend CUPS does not make
	  the server's PPD file available on the client any more. To
	  fix this, we download the PPD file when creating an
	  implictclass:... queue and apply it to the queue. This way
	  the options of the printer(s) are always available for
	  enumeration, especially in print dialogs (Bug #1372). We
	  modify the local copy setting any options saved from the
	  previous session and inhibiting local execution of filters
	  (as the driver for the remote printer is not necessarily
	  available locally).
	- cups-browsed: Added flag to inhibit auto-backup of option
	  settings by the on_printer_modified() notification handler
	  during print queue setup and removal.
	- cups-browsed: Let the printer_record() function always
	  return the master record for the printer name and not an
	  arbitrary duplicate.
	- cups-browsed: Fixes in the functionality for saving option
	  settings: Make sure to not save the same option twice with
	  different values, do not save the "printer-is-shared" option
	  (errors out when re-applying option in the next session).
	- cups-browsed: Treat discovered printers correctly also if
	  they use a non-standard port, even if several CUPS daemons
	  are running on the same server but on different ports. This
	  also improves the support of a sandboxed printing stack.
	- cups-browsed: Close http connections opened for polling
	  properties of IPP network printers, to fix a possible memory
	  leak.
	- cups-browsed: Cleaned up HTTP access to local and remote
	  CUPS servers and IPP printers, to assure that the local CUPS
	  daemon is always accessed the same (user-defined) way
	  (domain socket/localhost:port). This especially prevents
	  cups-browwsed hanging on shutdown (Debian bug #832637).
	- cups-browsed: Fixed clustering equally-named queues of
	  different remote servers, to assure to have one master
	  referencing to all duplicates and not a daisy chain of
	  duplicate references.

CHANGES IN V1.11.2

	- cups-browsed: Allow turning off the use of CUPS' domain
	  socket via cups-browsed.conf.
	- foomatic-rip: When run as regular CUPS filter use preferably
	  /etc/cups/foomatic-rip.conf (or whereever the CUPS
	  configuration files reside, according to the CUPS_SERVERROOT
	  environment variable) as configuration file. This way we can
	  more easily run the printing stack in a sandbox.
	- foomatic-rip: When run as regular CUPS filter, read the PPD
	  through CUPS and get the print queue name by environment
	  variable.
	- bannertopdf, foomatic-rip, gstoraster, mupdftoraster,
	  pdftoopvp, pdftoraster: Do not use build-time hard-coded
	  paths, but always the paths from the environment variables
	  which CUPS sets when calling its filters. This is needed to
	  run the printing stack in a sandbox.

CHANGES IN V1.11.1

	- mupdftoraster: Lowered the priority (raised the cost value)
	  in the cupsfilters-mupdf.convs file so that in a full
	  cups-filters installation MuPDF is not prioritized.

CHANGES IN V1.11.0

	- pdftops: Added support for MuPDF as PDF renderer. MuPDF can
	  be selected by the "pdftops-renderer=mupdf" option.
	- rastertops: Removed unneeded page logging.
	- rastertops: Fixed DSC comments, some were only preceded by
	  a single '%' instead of a double "%%".
	- gstoraster, pdftops, foomatic-rip: Use -dNOMEDIAATTRS when
	  calling Ghostscript. This way Ghostscript does not try to
	  match media sizes with internal lists.
	- Build system: Allow building cups-filters without Poppler
	  (--disable-poppler in ./configure command line) This skips
	  the build of pdftoraster, bannertopdf, pdftoijs, and
	  pdftoopvp and the installation of these filters and their
	  auxiliary files. With this cups-filters can be easily
	  installed on mobile/appliance systems with MuPDF as the only
	  PDF interpreter.
	- mupdftoraster: Added filter to support MuPDF as PDF
	  interpreter. MuPDF is a lightweight PDF interpreter
	  especially interesting for mobile systems and
	  appliances. Thanks to Pranjal Bhor for contributing this as
	  part of his Google Summer of Code project.
	- gstoraster: Fix setting of width and height of the page in
	  pixels when there is no Resolution option in the PPD.
	- cups-browsed, implicitclass: Avoid the use of files for the
	  communication between cups-browsed and the load-balancing
	  backend implicitclass. Instead of in a file, cups-brwsed
	  stores the destination server name in an option (which CUPS
	  saves in printers.conf) which the implicitclass backend
	  reads via IPP. This not only makes it easier to run
	  cups-filters in a sandbox, but it is also better in terms of
	  system security.
	- cups-browsed: Allow configuring where the files produced by
	  cups-browsed will get stored. This makes it easier to run
	  cups-filters in a sandbox.
        - beh: Fixed printing multiple copies with beh (Ubuntu bug
          #1605514).
	- cups-browsed: Fixed several memory leaks, especially when
	  using IPP requests and DNS-SD TXT record look-ups. Thanks to
	  Ivo Straka for finding them with Valgrind and supplying
	  patches to fix them (Bug #1365, Bug #1368, Ubuntu bug
	  #1203276).
	- libcupsfilters: Added missing "#include <cups/ppd.h>" to
	  make sure that the package builds on all systems (Bug
	  #1366).

CHANGES IN V1.10.0

	- texttotext: Added new filter for text-only printers written
	  in C, to use the CUPS library to access the print queue's
	  PPD file, with a lot of options to fit practically all
	  printer models amd paper sizes, support for CUPS' page
	  management options, and support for configuring the print
	  queue and controlling the options by the PPD file. The PPD
	  is now generated on-the-fly by cupsfilters.drv.
	- textonly: Removed the old script-based filter and its PPD
	  for text-only printers.
	- rastertops: Added new filter to turn PWG Raster into
	  PostScript, in preparation for MuPDF support. Thanks to
	  Pranjal Bhor for contributing this as part of his Google
	  Summer of Code project.
	- gstoraster, gstopxl, gstopdf, pstopdf: Integrated
	  functionality of script-based filters pstopdf and gstopxl
	  into gstoraster filter as script-based filters cannot access
	  the print queue's PPD file with current CUPS due to change
	  of PPD file permissions.  To make gstoraster always produce
	  the correct output format (CUPS/PWG Raster, PDF, PCL-XL) it
	  is called via new wrapper scripts (gstopdf, gstopxl) which
	  set an environment variable telling the format. The old
	  filter scripts got removed.
	- imagetops, texttops: Do not use $0 in the wrapper scripts,
	  when CUPS calls filters, it passes the queue name as $0, not
	  path and name of the called filter.
	- cups-browsed: When creating local queues for discovered IPP
	  network printers always create PPD files and if the
	  information supplied by the printer via IPP is insufficient
	  use information from the DNS-SD entry or default values
	  suitable for most printers. Use System V interface scripts
	  only on explicit request in cups-browsed.conf. This change
	  is to address the fact that System V interface script
	  support is removed from CUPS 2.2.x and later for security
	  reasons.
	- pstopdf: Make the filter only get installed if Ghostscript is
	  present and also moved its conversion rules into the
	  cupsfilters-ghostscript.convs file.
	- cups-browsed: Fixed crash when trying to get debugg logging
	  both to the terminal and into a file.
	- libcupsfilters: Fixed crash of pdftoraster when the color
	  space is an RGB space (3 colors) with 1 bit color
	  depth. Here we need to add one bit to the pixels (to get 4
	  bits per pixel) to align the pixels with the bytes.
	- cups-browsed: From cups-browsed.service removed the unneeded
	  "Wants=cups.service" as we have "Requires=cups.service"
	  (Debian bug #827455, #827457).
	- foomatic-rip: Updated man page for removed page logging
	  facility.
	- pdftops: Also added Dell to the list of manufacturers whose
	  printers need Poppler's PostScript to work around their
	  PostScript interpreter bugs (Debian bug #827040).

CHANGES IN V1.9.0

	- foomatic-rip: Removed page logging via insertion of PostScript code.
	  This works only with Ghostscript and PostScript input and even
	  then it can break things or simply not work. We do the page logging
	  for foomatic-rip in pdftopdf now, which is more universal and more
	  reliable.
	- sys5ippprinter: Added page logging (to /var/log/cups/page_log)
	  functionality.
	- pdftopdf: Added functionality for logging pages in the
	  /var/log/cups/page_log file. Logging can also be forced or
	  surpressed via command line (page-logging=on/off/auto) and
	  page logging is also done for filters which should do but
	  actually do not do: foomatic-rip, gstopxl, hpps (CUPS issue #4798,
	  Ubuntu bug #1585380).
	- pdftopdf: Whitespace and indentation clean-up.
	- README: Removed the documentation of the old Poppler-based pdftopdf
	  filter which is not included any more.
	- cups-browsed: Do not schedule failed operations for later repetition
	  during shutdown.
	- cups-browsed: Added support for debug logging into a file (usually
	  /var/log/cups/cups-browsed_log, to be activated via "-l" or
	  "--logfile" option or via "DebugLogging file" option in
	  cups-browsed.conf.
	- cups-browesd: Consistent use of debug_printf() in the LDAP support.
	- cups-browsed: Added "Requires=cups-service" to the
	  cups-browsed.service file, so that systemd keeps CUPS running while
	  shutting down cups-browsed on system shutdown (Ubuntu bug #1579905).
	- README: Extended pdftopdf's documentation.
	- README: Added documentation for the pdfAutorotate option in
	  pdftopdf.
	- gstoraster: Treat status output of the waitpid() function properly,
	  to avoid gstoraster exiting with zero status when Ghostscript
	  exited with non-zero status or got terminated by a signal
	  (Bug #1354).
	- README: Fixed typos. Thanks to Pranjal Bhor (bhor dot pranjal at
	  gmail dot com) for the patch.
	- braille: Recognize application/vnd.cups-pdf-banner MIME type and
	  read standard input directly instead of using /dev/stdin.
	- braille: Drop output of the "type" command when checking the
	  presence of helper utilities.
	- braille: Do not send EOF twice to the braille embosser.
	- cups-browsed/sys5ippprinter: Fixed documentation about the allowed
	  input formats for auto-created network printer queues using
	  sys5ippprinter, also improved NEWS entry about renaming of
	  sys5ippprinter (Debian bug #819665).

CHANGES IN V1.8.3

	- cups-browsed: When creating or modifying a local print queue
	  set the printer-is-shared bit to false in a separate IPP
	  request as this operation errors on queues directly pointing
	  to remote CUPS queues with the IPP backend. This way we can
	  ignore the error and assure that all other settings are
	  applied (Ubuntu bug #1560099).
	- Fixed pkg-config support so that $PKG_CONFIG gets used and
	  cross compilation works (Bug #1347).
	- gstoraster: Put conversion rules for this filter into a
	  separate file, so that they do not get installed when we
	  build without Ghostscript support (Bug #1346).
	- Allow disabling dependencies on IJS (Bug #1345).
	- pdftops: Switch to Poppler as PDF renderer also for the
	  Apple LaserWriter 12/640, to work around a bug in the
	  printer's PostScript interpreter (Bug #1344).

CHANGES IN V1.8.2

	- Allow disabling dependencies on Ghostscript and Foomatic
	  (Bug #1342).
	- cups-browsed: Optionally generate also local queues pointing
	  to remote raw queues. Usually only queues pointing to remote
	  queues with PPD/driver are created (Debian bug #814020,
	  Debian bug #756724).

CHANGES IN V1.8.1

	- cups-browsed: Do not disable queues which still have jobs (and
	  therefore cannot be removed) when avahi-daemon goes away, the
	  print server is most probably still available and printing can
	  be continued. Especially important on mobile devices where
	  avahi-daemon is shut down when the print dialog is closed (and
	  the job(s) still printing).

CHANGES IN V1.8.0

	- COPYING: Replaced the COPYING file by a file in Debian format,
	  derived from Debian's file but updated and corrected.
	- braille: Added info about additional packages needed for Braille
	  printing to the README file.
	- braille: Let the Braille filters use lou_translate of
	  liblouis if the more sophisticated file2brl of liblouisutdml
	  is not installed. This is decided on at run time, so later
	  installation of liblouisutdml will let the filters
	  automatically switch to file2brl.
	- braille: Allow to build with Braille support also if
	  liblouis is not installed at build time.
	- braille: Added checks for the presence of helper tools, to
	  get clear messages in the CUPS error_log if something is
	  missing.
	- Fixed copyright headers of files inherited from CUPS or
          derived from CUPS, pointing to COPYING as license info file,
          removing Apple exceptions, removing hints that a missing
          license info file can be found at www.cups.org, and removing
          "$Id" SVN file ID placeholders.
	- Updated COPYING file for missing implicitclass and beh
          backends.

CHANGES IN V1.7.0

	- cups-browsed: Added possibility to trigger the auto shutdown
	  by the queues of cups-browsed being without jobs. Before
	  auto shutdown was only possible when all queues have gone
	  away. This allows auto shutdown on mobile devices where
	  avahi-daemon is also used for other things than printing.

CHANGES IN V1.6.0

	- cups-browsed: Fixed use of CUPS domain socket, both
	  detection during build process and permission check at
	  runtime.
	- foomatic-rip: Fixed buffer overflow when reading environment
	  variables CUPS_FONTPATH, CUPS_DATADIR, and GS_LIB (Bug
	  #1336).
	- beh: Introduced beh, the Backend Error Handler, a wrapper
	  backend to make handling of backend errors more
	  configurable. This backend is a C re-write of the beh
	  backend written in Perl which was part of the former
	  foomatic-filters package. Several people asked for beh
	  getting moved to cups-filters.
	- braille: Make image printing working also if ImageMagick
	  generates formatted images without header.
	- braille: If the user does not select a Braille translation,
	  let the embosser do the translation.
	- cups-browsed: Added version info to help screen and start-up
	  in debug mode, call help screen also via "--version" option.
	- cups-browsed: Minor improvements in help screen and man
          page.

CHANGES IN V1.5.0

	- cups-browsed: Allow use of an alternative configuration file
	  via the "-c" command line option.
	- cups-browsed: Allow supplying configuration settings via the
          command line using the "-o" command line option.
	- cups-browsed: Command line help via the "-h" or "--help"
          command line option.

CHANGES IN V1.4.0

	- foomatic-rip: SECURITY FIX: Also consider the semicolon
	  (';') as an illegal shell escape character. Thanks to Adam
	  Chester (adam dot chester at pentest dot co dot uk) for the
	  hint (CVE-2015-8560).
	- brftoembosser, imagetobrf, imagetoubrl, imageubrltoindexv3,
	  imageubrltoindexv4, textbrftoindexv3, textbrftoindexv4,
	  texttobrf, braille.convs, braille.types, generic-brf.drv,
	  indexv3.drv, indexv4.drv: Added support for Braille
	  embossing via CUPS. Text and even images can now be sent to
	  a Braille embosser like to a printer. Thanks to Samuel
	  Thibault (samuel dot thibault at ens-lyon dot org) for this
	  contribution.

CHANGES IN V1.3.0

	- cups-browsed: Added new BrowseFilter directive in
	  cups-browsed.conf.  This directive allows filtering of the
	  remote printers to be accepted on most properties/metadata
	  supplied with the DNS-SD broadcasts. This allows, in
	  addition to BrowseAllow/BrowseDeny/BrowseOrder, to reduce
	  the amount of printers listed in print dialogs to a more
	  useful amount.
	- cups-browsed: Added support for BrowseDeny and BrowseOrder
	  directives in cups-browsed.conf.
	- cups-browsed: Let the BrowseAllow lines in cups-browsed.conf
	  also apply to remote printers discovered via DNS-SD.
	- cups-browsed: Auto-create queues for PCL-5c/e printers but
	  not for HP inkjet printers (which also advertise themselves
	  as PCL printers).
	- cups-browsed, sys5ippprinter: Recognize PCL-5c/e printers
	  not only by the application/vnd.hp-pcl MIME type but also by
	  application/pcl and application/x-pcl.

CHANGES IN V1.2.0

	- cups-browsed: When using IP-address-based device URIs via
	  the "IPBasedDeviceURIs" directive in cups-browsed.conf, add
	  two additional settings to restrict the used IP addresses to
	  either only IPv4 addresses or only IPv6 addresses.
	- foomatic-rip: SECURITY FIX: Also consider the back tick
	  ('`') as an illegal shell escape character. Thanks to Michal
	  Kowalczyk from the Google Security Team for the hint
	  (CVE-2015-8327).

CHANGES IN V1.1.0

	- Version numbering scheme changed: Releases with feature
	  addition/change have the minor number increased now, pure
	  bug fix releases get the revision number increased, to make
	  use of the minor number which stayed zero all the time.
	- cups-browsed: Added "DefaultOptions" directive to
	  cups-browsed.conf to allow defining default option settings
	  for local queues to be generated for newly appearing remote
	  printers.
	- cups-browsed: Removed assert() calls which remained from
	  copy and paste in the very beginning of the development of
	  cups-browsed.  assert() is only for use during debugging and
	  should not be used in production code.
	- cups-browsed: Let option settings of a generated print queue
	  be saved before taking the queue down so that when the remote
	  printer appears again all user changes get restored, making
	  user changes permanent on generated queues.
	- foomatic-rip: Fixed string length for shell path constant, to
	  work also with systems having longer paths (Bug #1325)
	- cups-browsed: Added a mode in which IP-based device URIs
	  for the generation of local print queues are used, for
	  cases with problems in local host name resolution.
	- foomatic-rip: Use -dFirstPage=... and -dLastPage=... only
	  if really needed (Bug #1324).
	- cups-browsed, implicitclass: Make the load-balancing
	  configurable so that one can select whether the jobs get
	  queued up locally like in a CUPS class or whether they get
	  immediately distributed to the remote servers letting them
	  queue up there.

CHANGES IN V1.0.76

	- cups-browsed: Make build also working with BSD make (Bug
          #1310).
	- cups-browsed, implicitclass: Let the load-balancing queue up
	  the jobs in the local (generated) queue until a free (idle,
	  enabled, and accepting jobs) remote queue is found (check
	  every 5 sec if no free queue available). This gives a more
	  even distribution of the work amongst the servers and
	  protects against the case that a bunch of jobs gets
	  inaccessible or lost if one of the servers fails.
	- cups-browsed: Let the load-balancing also check whether the
	  destination queue is actually accepting jobs.
	- cups-browsed: If a generated queue is not removed on
	  shutdown of cups-browsed due to remaining jobs in it,
	  re-enable it in the next cups-browsed session even if it was
	  disabled by something other than cups-browsed.
	- implicitclass: Clean up debug and error messages.
	- implicitclass: Fix exit codes for immediate retry of jobs.
	- cups-browsed: Make absence of CUPS notifications via D-Bus
	  non-fatal and fall back to the old behavior of cups-browsed
	  (fail-over instead of load balancing for equally-named
	  remote queues, do not remove generated queue if it is
	  default instead of default printer management). This solves
	  problems of CUPS and/or cups-browsed built without D-Bus
	  support or absence of D-Bus on the system (Bug #1316).
	- cups-browsed: Do not use g_warning() function, sneaked in by
	  copy and paste of CUPS subscription functions.

CHANGES IN V1.0.75

	- texttopdf: Really support BoldItalic (original texttops just maps
	  BoldItalic to Bold).
	- texttopdf: Fixed segfault when outputting BoldItalic (Bug #1314).

CHANGES IN V1.0.74

	- cups-browsed: Added NULL check when getting the notification of
	  a printer starting to process a job and checking whether this
	  printer is created by cups-browsed with the implicitclass:
	  backend (Ubuntu bug #1488524).
	- backends: Include unistd.h and fcntl.h in backend-private.h for
	  all platforms, not only Linux, so that the backends build also
	  on non-Linux platforms (Bug #1308).
	- cups-browsed: Do not schedule printers for update when they are
	  already marked as disappeared.
	- cups-browsed: Added sanity checks when saving the default printer
	  selection in a file.
	- cups-browsed, implicitclass: If remote queues disappear or
	  cups-browsed shuts down and a cups-browsed-generated queue still
	  has jobs and needs to be kept therefore, disable it and re-enable
	  it when cups-browsed starts again and/or the remote queue(s) re-
	  appear(s). This avoids repeated retries of the jobs while the
	  remote server is not available, causing unneeded system load and
	  battery consumption.
	- cups-browsed: After polling info from remote CUPS servers to find
	  the best destination job, set the default CUPS server back to local.

CHANGES IN V1.0.73

	- cups-browsed: Added missing
          utils/org.cups.cupsd.Notifier.xml file.

CHANGES IN V1.0.72

	- cups-browsed, implicitclass: Added load balancing
          functionality. If there are several remote CUPS printers
          with the same name, they for locally a cluster represented
          by a print queue with this name. This printer prints through
          a special backend (implicitclass) which makes cups-browsed
          find the best destination remote queue (fewest jobs,
          enabled) for this job.
	- cups-browsed: Added protection against accidental deletion of
	  print queues generated by cups-browsed. These queues now get
	  automatically re-created.
	- cups-browsed: Added LDAP support. Appropriately configured via
	  cups-browsed.conf remote printers made available via LDAP will be
	  looked up and local queues pointing to them created. Thanks to
	  Raphael Geissert (atomo64 at gmail dot com) for contributing this
	  patch (Debian bug #795185).
	- cups-browsed: Introduced new handling for the default
	  printer using cache files. So we do not need to keep an auto-generated
	  queue because it is set as default printer. If the auto-generated
	  queue disappears, the old local printer is set as default again and
	  when it re-appears it returns to be the default printer.
	- cups-browsed: Added infrastructure for subscribing to CUPS
	  notifications for things like improved default printer handling,
	  load balancing, ...
	- foomatic-rip: Prevent crash when supplying "media" option with empty
	  value ("media=", Ubuntu bug #1479871).
	- pdftoopvp: Adaptations to API changes on Poppler 0.34.0, note that
	  this patch disables color management in this filter. Thanks to
	  Vincent le Garrec and Andreas K. Huettel for the patch (Bug #1301,
	  Gentoo bug #554782).
	- libcupsfilters, bannertopdf, foomatic-rip, gstoraster, pdftoijs,
	  sys5ippprinter, pdftoopvp, pdftops, pdftoraster, rastertoescpx,
	  urftopdf, texttopdf: Miscellaneous fixes for build compatibility with
	  different platforms, like config.h as very first include and so on.
	  Thanks to Richard Palo for the patch (Bug #1264).
	- texttopdf: Request the generic 'monospace' font alias from fontconfig
	  instead of the hard-coded FreeMono. Thanks to Fabian Greffrath
	  (fabian at debian dot org) for the patch (Debian bug #788048).
 
CHANGES IN V1.0.71

  	- texttopdf: The Page allocation is moved into textcommon.c, where it
	  does all the necessary checking: lower-bounds for CVE-2015-3258 and
	  upper-bounds for CVE-2015-3279 due to integer overflows for the
	  calloc() call initialising Page[0] and the memset() call in
	  texttopdf.c's WritePage() function zeroing the entire array. Thanks
	  to Tim Waugh from Red Hat for the patch.
	- texttopdf: Upper-bounds checking (CVE-2015-3279).

CHANGES IN V1.0.70

	- texttopdf: Fixed buffer overflow on size allocation of texttopdf
	  when working with extremely small line sizes, which causes the size
	  calculation to result in 0 (CVE-2015-3258, thanks to Stefan
	  Cornelius fro Red Hat for the patch).
	- cups-browsed: leak fixes
	- cups-browsed: Further BrowseAllow fixing
	- cups-browsed: BrowsePoll is an array of pointers, not structures,
	  so allocate room for the pointers
  	- cups-browsed: Prevent NULL dereference when handling BrowseAllow
	  without value
  	- cups-browsed: Use memory deallocation function corresponding to
	  allocation function used
	- cups-browsed: Fixes for glib source handling (Red Hat bug #1228555)
	- foomatic-rip: Allow using another shell than /bin/bash using the
	  "--with-shell=..." option for "./configure". Thanks to Leonardo
	  Taccari for the patch (Bug #1288).

CHANGES IN V1.0.69

	- cups-browsed: When generating a PPD for an auto-discovered IPP
	  network printer, create a "ColorModel" option only if valid
	  choices are reported for it by the IPP printer.
	- cups-browsed: Updated PPD file generator for auto-generated queues
	  for IPP network printers from the CUPS 2.1.x upstream code, so that
	  floating-point numbers are written in a locale-neutral way
	  (CUPS STR #4579).
	- cups-browsed: When checking whether a queue name already exists
	  as a locally defined queue, do case-insensitive comparing as for
	  CUPS printer names are case-insensitive. This assures that
	  already existing queues do never get overwritten.
	- cups-browsed: Added "IPPPrinterQueueType Auto/PPD/NoPPD" directive
	  to cups-browsed.conf to allow controlling how cups-browsed
	  creates queues fr native IPP network printers: with PPD, with
	  System V interface script, or selecting automatically.
	- pdftopdf: Center Landscape-oriented jobs correctly on the page
	  if the "fitplot" or "number-up" options are used (Bug #1284).
	- pstopdf: Removed "-dUseCIEColor" from the Ghostscript command line.
	  In modern Ghostscript versions (9.11 and newer) it is recommended to
	  not use it with the pdfwrite and ps2write output devices any more.
	- imagetopdf: Corrections in PDF output: Let evince display the PDF
	  with the correct size including margins and let ghostscript not
	  complain about an invalid xref entry.
	- cups-browsed: Do not add options to the System V interface script
	  which calls sys5ippprinter but set the options as defaults for the
	  CUPS queue in printers.conf.
	- cups-browsed: When auto-generating a PPD-less print queue for an
	  IPP network printer, determine default page size, unprintable margins,
	  and color space from the printer via an IPP request.
	- imagetopdf: Debug logging should be only controlled by the LogLevel
	  of CUPS, not by an awkward build time switch.
	- cups-browsed: Determine from the TXT records of the Bonjour broadcast
	  of an IPP network printer whether it has color and duplex
	  capabilities and if yes, let auto-generated PPD-less print queues
	  use appropriate command line options to make use of these
	  capabilities.
	- imagetopdf: Make this filter also work with auto-generated PPD-less
	  print queues for IPP network printers.
	- sys5ippprinter: Renamed from pdftoippprinter to reflect that
	  it is a System 5 interface script and does not accept only
	  PDF as input.
	- pdftoippprinter: Support also PWG Raster and JPEG as input formats
	  so that an auto-generated, PPD-less queue for an IPP printer emulates
	  an IPP Everywhere printer.

CHANGES IN V1.0.68

	- cups-browsed: Numeric IDs for GSources of the glib event
	  loop must be positive integers greater than zero according
	  to the documentation of the g_source_get_id() function.
	  Taken care of this at all places.
	- cups-browsed: Added conditionals so that it also builds with
	  CUPS 1.5.x (but then withou support for automatically creating
	  queues for IPP network printers). Thanks to Johannes Meixner from
	  SUSE for the patch (Bug #1268).
	- Ricoh-PDF_Printer-PDF.ppd: Added PPD file for Ricoh's PDF printers
	  (experimental). Thanks to Ulrich Wehner from Ricoh for the file.

CHANGES IN V1.0.67

	- cups-browsed: Use g_source_remove() instead of g_source_destroy()
	  for killing auto shutdown timers (Ubuntu bug #1427344).

CHANGES IN V1.0.66

	- cups-browsed: SECURITY FIX: Fixed a bug in the remove_bad_chars()
	  failing to reliably filter out illegal characters if there are two
	  or more subsequent illegal characters, allowing execution of
	  arbitrary commands with the rights of the "lp" user, using forged
	  print service announcements on DNS-SD servers (Bug #1265).
	- pdftoopvp: Added conditionals to also build with Poppler 0.31.0
	  and newer. Thanks to Armin K. (krejzi at email dot com) for the
	  patch (Bug #1254).

CHANGES IN V1.0.65

	- cups-browsed: Listen for NetworkManager changes (Red Hat bug #975933).
	- cups-browsed: Fix for memory leak introduced in BZR rev 7059.
	- cups-browsed: Memory leak/uninit fixes.
	- cups-browsed: Cache prepared browse data to send.
	- cups-browsed: Only get local notifications once per BrowsePoll run.
	- cups-browsed: Fix BrowsePoll now notifications work properly. Need 
	  to maintain a list of printers to keep alive for the case of there
	  being no notifications of changes.
	- cups-browsed: Use local browsepolling for getting initial printer
	  list.
	- cups-browsed: Ignore browse packets for deleted printers.
	- cups-browsed: Cache connection to local cupsd.
	- cups-browsed: Use notifications to track local printers.
  	  This avoids expensive calls to cupsGetDests().
	- cups-browsed: Manage subscriptions for local browsepolling.
	- cups-browsed: Track notify-sequence-number for notifications.

CHANGES IN V1.0.64

	- cups-browsed: Added PPD file generator for IPP Everywhere
	  printers.  If auto-setup of discovered IPP printers is
	  activated ("CreateIPPPrinterQueues Yes" in
	  cups-browsed.conf), the printer provides suitable capability
	  information via a Get-Printer-Attributes IPP call, and
	  prints PWG or PostScript input, a PPD is auto-generated
	  based on the Get-Printer-Attributes IPP response. Otherwise
	  a System-V interface script is used as befreo. Advantage of
	  the PPD file is that current print dialogs aloow access to
	  the options, no IPP request done by the dialog is
	  required. The PPD generator code is borrowed from the CUPS
	  2.1.x development code repository. It will perhaps be
	  removed in the future when CUPS provides proper API function
	  for its PPD generator.

CHANGES IN V1.0.63

	- foomatic-rip: Added hint to man page that direct, spooler-less mode
	  is mainly for testing and debugging (Bug #1253).
	- foomatic-rip: Added a symlink of the filter to the binary executable
	  directory (usually /usr/bin), so that LSB compliance test scripts
	  work (Bug #1255).
	- cups-browsed: Fixed CUPS Browsing timeouts. Thanks to Tim
          Waugh from Red Hat for the patch (Bug #1252, Red Hat bug
          #1189254).

CHANGES IN V1.0.62

	- cups-browsed: Allow underscore characters in print queue names.
	  Thanks to Tim Waugh from Red Hat for the bug report (Bug
	  #1241).
	- pdftops: Apply workarounds for Kyocera also to Utax printers
	  as Utax uses hard- and software from Kyocera. Thanks to Edward
	  Huang from Kyocera.
	- cups-browsed: Added support for "BrowseAllow All" in the
	  cups-browsed.conf file.
	- cups-browsed: Reorder inclusion of headers for compatibility
	  with NetBSD (Bug #1235).
	- imagetopdf, pdftopdf: Correct handling of hardware copies in
	  PJL/JCL and/or when the PPD file has a "Copies" option.

CHANGES IN V1.0.61

	- cups-browsed: Fixed memory leak when a
	  cups-browsed-generated print queue is the default
	  printer. Thanks to Tim Waugh from Red Hat for the patch (Red
	  Hat bug: #1119290).
	- cupsfilters.drv, *-PDF.ppd, textonly.ppd: Added
	  "*cupsFilter2: ..."  lines to the PPD files to support
	  data-format-specific behavior of backends, especially of the
	  IPP backend.

CHANGES IN V1.0.60

	- cups-browsed, pdftoippprinter: Do not confuse the PDL "PCLm"
	  with "PCL". The former is a proprietary, PDF-based raster
	  format and has nothing to do with PCL.
	- cupsfilters.drv: Corrected the CMD: field of the device ID,
	  it must read "PWGRaster" there to conform to the PWG standard.

CHANGES IN V1.0.59

	- cupsfilters.drv: Added PPD file for a Generic IPP Everywhere
	  Printer, generating PWG Raster output.
	- gstoraster, pdftoraster, imagetoraster: Allow PWG Raster
	  output with print queues using a PPD file, using the new
	  "PWGRaster" PPD attribute.
	- pdftoraster: Removed "cm_disabled" flag in selectConvFunc()
	- libcupsfilters: Allowed color management to continue while
	  invalid input
	- rastertopdf: Streamlined PDF conversion code
	- rastertopdf: Invert all CUPS_CSPACE_K documents by default
	- foomatic-rip: Clean trailing white space from PPD file lines to
	  avoid a segfault caused by it (Bug #1227).

CHANGES IN V1.0.58

	- pdftoraster: Changed ICC profile get function to accept a
	  PPD fallback profile.
	- pdftoraster: Fixed handling of cupsColorSpaces 18,19,20.
	- rastertopdf: Added test feature to force color management if
	  "profile=" option is specified.
	- rastertopdf: Grayscale color conversion now properly inverts
          bits.
	- rastertopdf: Code cleanup for prepare_pdf_page().
	- rastertopdf: Implemented basic 8bit->8bit color space
	  conversions.
	- rastertopdf: Added black point compensation.
	- rastertopdf: Added handling of color rendering intent.
	- gstoraster, imagetoraster, pdftoraster, rastertopclx,
	  rastertopdf, foomatic-rip: Use color management functions in
	  libcupsfilters.
	- libcupsfilters: Modified code formatting and documentation in
	  the color management functions.
	- libcupsfilters: Fixed string handling and added debug log
          messages in the color management functions.
	- libcupsfilters: Fixed Adobe RGB matrix for proper rendering
          (transpose)
	- libcupsfilters: Moved color management functions from the
	  individual filters to the libcupsfilters library.

CHANGES IN V1.0.57

	- rastertopclx: Fixed implicit declaration of
          colord_get_inhibit_for_device_id.
	- Build system: Explicitly link to libm as -lm was dropped
          from cups-config --libs.
	- libcupsfilters, foomaticrip, gstoraster, imagetoraster,
          pdftoraster, rastertopclx, rastertopdf: Handle absence of
          colord or D-Bus gracefully (Ubuntu bug #1356405).

CHANGES IN V1.0.56

	- rastertopdf: Some code polishing and removal of now unneeded
	  functions
	- rastertopdf: Reduced color space handling to only
	  PWG-supported color spaces
	- rastertopdf: Added colorspace calibration function; included
	  optional "/Alternate" PDF key for ICC profile embedding
	- rastertopdf: Colorspace sRGB now embeds srgb icc profile;
	  implemented ICC Profile embedding (PDF 1.3 spec)
	- rastertopdf: Added basic color calibration
	- rastertopdf: Implemented ICC Profile creation code for IPP
	  Everywhere (from PWG raster)
	- pdftoraster: Added colord handling of ICC profiles
	- kmdevices.cpp/.h: Added interface for Kolor Manager
	- cups-browsed: Do not consider a remote CUPS queue as raw if
	  the TXT record is NULL as for queues broadcasted by the
	  legacy CUPS method the TXT record does not exist. Now
	  consider a queue with NULL TXT record only as raw if the
	  domain entry is not empty (which tells that the queue is
	  Bonjour-broadcasted (Bug #1223).
	- cups-browsed: Do also not mark a discovered printer as
	  already provided by another server when the other server's
	  queue has "unconfirmed" status. Mark the other queue with
	  "disappeared" or "unconfirmed" status as duplicate of the
	  discovered printer so that the new queue for the discovered
	  printer does not get removed when the entry for the other
	  queue times out.

CHANGES IN V1.0.55

	- pdftopdf: Fixed manual duplex by adding a blank page to evn
          pages if the total number of pages of the document is
          odd. Otherwise the last page of the document would stay in
          the input tray. This fixes also a side effect as the set of
          even pages reducing to a zero page job if the job consists
          of only one page, making Poppler's pdftops error out (Ubuntu
          bug #1340435).
	- cups-browsed: Do not mark a discovered printer as already
          provided by another server when the other server's queue has
          "disappeared" status. This queue can be from the same server
          before it changed its name.
	- cups-browsed: Do not create a local queue pointing to a
	  remote raw queue (Ubuntu bug #1335211).
	- foomatic-rip, imagetoraster, pdftoraster, rastertopclx,
	  rastertopdf: Added colord "device_inhibit" support for
	  color-managed filters.
	- foomatic-rip: Let it also build correctly on systems which
	  already provide the strlcat() and strlcpy() functions, like
	  Mac OS X. Thanks to Matt Broughton for reporting this
	  (bug #1215).
	- bannertopdf: Added support for PPD-less printing, especially
	  one gets a useful test page with PPD-less queues now.
	- bannertopdf: Fixed "Printer Location" and "Driver Version"
	  entries on the test page/the banners.
	- bannertopdf: Added new PDF template files which contain the
	  text strings appropriate to the banners, before the banners
	  were all equal, without text. Thanks to Johannes Meixner
	  from SUSE/Novell for this fix (Bug #1209).
	- bannertopdf: Fixed Makefile to mark it dependent on
	  libfontembed.la. Thanks to Tim Waugh from Red Hat for the
	  patch (Red Hat bug #1106101).
	- pstopdf: Use "grep -E" instead of "grep -P" as the latter
	  generates executable code and executes it, requiring
	  "execmem" privileges which could be not available in some
	  security policies. Thanks to Tim Waugh from Red Hat for the
	  patch (Red Hat bug #1079534).
	- foomatic-rip: NetBSD does not provide a mkstemps() function,
	  use appropriate workaround then (Bug #1211).
	- cups-browsed: Reorder inclusion of headers for compatibility
	  with NetBSD (Bug #1212).
	- pdftoraster: Fixed segfault caused by introduction of
	  "no-color-management" option (Bug #1214).
	- libcupsfilters: Let cupsRasterParseIPPOptions() also accept
	  "pwg-raster-document-type" settings with hyphen between
	  color space name and color depth.

CHANGES IN V1.0.54

	- pdftoraster: Support for output in the color spaces 18
	  (CUPS_CSPACE_SW, sGray), 19 (CUPS_CSPACE_SRGB, sRGB), and 20
	  (CUPS_CSPACE_ADOBERGB, Adobe RGB). No color management
	  appropriate to these color spaces is added yet.
	- foomatic-rip, gstoraster, imagetoraster, pdftoraster,
	  rastertopclx: added boolean option "no-color-management" to
	  suppress all forms of color correction when
	  color-calibrating the printer.
	- pdftops: Default to "hybrid" setting for the PDF->PostScript
	  renderer.
	- pdftoraster: Produce correct (compressed) PWG Raster output
	  when requested by using the correct mode in
	  cupsRasterOpen().
	- rastertopdf: Added new filter to convert PWG Raster input
	  into a PDF file (using QPDF). This filter makes CUPS
	  supporting the PWG Raster input format which is required to
	  be supported by IPP Everywhere printers, making a shared
	  CUPS queue emulating an IPP Everywhere printer. This is a
	  first implementation which supports the black, RGB, CMYK,
	  sGray, sRGB, and Adobe RGB color spaces (all mapped to
	  DeviceGray, DeviceRGB, and DeviceCMYK resp. in the PDF
	  output) with 1, 8, and 16 bits per component color
	  depth. sGray, sRGB, and Adobe RGB are currently also mapped
	  to DeviceGray and DeviceRGB and do not have the correct
	  color management yet, so color output is not absolutely
	  correct. Note that mime.types of CUPS up to 1.7.2 has a bug
	  which prevents PWG Raster to be recognized, the
	  "priority(100)" of the rule needs to be changed to
	  "priority(150)".
	- foomatic-rip: Corrected declaration of print_pdf() function in
	  pdf.h file (Debian bug #748028).
	- foomatic-rip: Let it also build with uclibc which does not
	  provide the mkstemps() function. Thanks to Andreas K.
	  Huettel for the patch (Gentoo bug #509884).
	- cups-browsed: Create local queues also to access classes on
	  remote CUPS servers (Ubuntu bug #1313741).
	- cups-browsed: Let a newly discovered printer not only
	  overtaking an existing printer entry if it is from the same
	  host (usually IPP -> IPPS) or without host entry
	  (unconfirmed local queue from previous cups-browsed session)
	  but also if it is marked disappeared. So printer entries get
	  correctly migrated when things like a host name change of
	  the remote server happen.
	- cups-browsed: Always do case-insensitive comparing of
	  strings, as CUPS queue names and URIs are case-insensitive
	  (CUPS STR #4411).

CHANGES IN V1.0.53

	- foomatic-rip: Fixed segfault when creating log file (Bug
          #1206).
	- cups-browsed: SECURITY FIX: Fix on usage of the
	  "BrowseAllow" directive in cups-browsed.conf. Before, if the
	  argument of a "BrowseAllow" directive is not understood it
	  is treated as the directive not having been there, allowing
	  any host if this was the only "BrowseAllow" directive. Now
	  we treat this as a directive which no host can fulfill, not
	  allowing any host if it was the only one. No "BrowseAllow"
	  directive means access for all, as before (Bug #1204).
	- cups-browsed: SECURITY FIX: Further improvement on the fix
	  in 1.0.51 as it was insufficient. In addition, some fixes
	  against OOB access are done. Thanks to Sebastian Krahmer for
	  the patch (SUSE/Novell bug #871327).

CHANGES IN V1.0.52

	- texttopdf: Make sure that margin changes for prettyprint
	  get applied.
	- texttopdf, imagetopdf, imagetoraster: Range-check paper
	  dimensions and margins taken from the PPD file and correct
	  them if needed (Bug #1195).

CHANGES IN V1.0.51

	- cups-browsed: SECURITY FIX to prevent arbitrary code
	  injection into the System V interface scripts generated for
	  queues for discovered native IPP printers by a malicious IPP
	  print service with forged make/model and/or PDL string.
 
CHANGES IN V1.0.50

	- pdftops: Let old HP LaserJet printers (model number without
	  letter, like "LaserJet 3" or "LaserJet 4000") use Poppler
	  instead of Ghostscript (Debian bug #742765).
	- pdftops: Improved workaround for Toshiba printers. Instead
	  of using Poppler do not emit TrueType fonts with Ghostscript
	  (Ubuntu bug #998087).
	- cups-browsed: Build the device URIs for all local queues we create
	  with the CUPS library function httpAssembleURIf() for proper
	  percent escaping of characters which are not allowed in URIs
	  (Bug #1187).

CHANGES IN V1.0.49

	- pdftops: Use Poppler also for Toshiba printers (Ubuntu bug
	  #998087).
	- pdftops: Fixed typo which always made PostScript level 2 being
	  generated when using Poppler's pdftops (Ubuntu bug #1294370).

CHANGES IN V1.0.48

	- cups-browsed: Fix for a crash which happens on Bonjour reports of
	  printers without "product", "usb_MDL", and "ty" fields in the
	  text record (Ubuntu bug #1284834).
	- cups-browsed: In README and in the sample startup scripts/configs
	  for System V Init and Upstart taken into account the fact that it
	  is not required any more to start avahi-daemon before starting
	  cups-browsed.

CHANGES IN V1.0.47

	- pdftoopvp: SECURITY FIX for CVE-2013-6474, CVE-2013-6475,
	  and CVE-2013-6476: Introductionof gmallocn and gmallocn3
	  to protect against arbitrary code execution with the
	  privileges of the "lp" user via malicious PDF files. Also
	  restrict the directory from where OPVP drivers can get
	  loaded.
	- urftopdf: SECURITY FIX for CVE-2013-6473: Two heap-based
	  buffer overflow flaws in urftopdf. If a malicious URF file
	  were processed it could lead to arbitrary code execution
	  with the privileges of the "lp" user.
	- pdftopdf: Fixed typo in initialization which sets the default
	  value page border to an undefined value. Thanks to Helge
	  Blischke for the patch.
	- cups-browsed: Check for changes of the URI of a queue which
	  we have created and correct the URI if needed, especially if
	  a queue was not removed on shutdown of cups-browsed (default
	  printer or still having jobs) and before restart of
	  cups-browsed the server's DNS-SD-provided has changed.
	- bannertopdf: Support PDF forms as banner template. This allows
	  especially internationalized banner pages. Forms can contain
	  fields for any CUPS/IPP value and get automatically filled
	  Thanks to Andrew V. Stepanov from ALT Linux (Bug #1170,
	  also first step to fix Ubuntu bug #1196986).

CHANGES IN V1.0.46

	- gstoraster: Ignore SIGCHLD, rely on waitpid instead. Thanks
	  to Lauri Tirkkonen (Bug #1184).
	- gstoraster: Fix two instances of insufficient EINTR handling.
	  Thanks to Lauri Tirkkonen (Bug #1184).

CHANGES IN V1.0.45

	- cups-browsed: Under Upstart load the AppArmor profile
	  (Ubuntu bug #1276630).
	- cups-browsed: Added auto-shutdown feature for on-demand use
	  of cups-browsed (for example on mobile devices). With auto
	  shutdown active, cups-browsed terminates after a certain
	  time interval (30 sec by default) without having any remote
	  printer to make available locally. The mode can be turned
	  on, turned off (default) or set to automatically be off
	  while avahi-daemon is running an on otherwise (controlled by
	  avahi-daemon running on-demand). The mode and the timeout
	  interval can be selected by command line options, the
	  configuration file, and sending signals to cups-browsed
	  (on/off only).
	- cups-browsed: To make Bonjour-discovered printers locally
	  available avahi-daemon does not need to be started before
	  cups-browsed and does not need to stay continuously running
	  while cups-browsed is running. Bonjour-discovered printers
	  are now added whenever avahi-daemon starts and removed
	  whenever avahi-daemon stops and cups-browsed keeps
	  running. This makes it easier to use cups-browsed in
	  different system-configurations and also on systems with
	  daemons running on-demand (like mobile systems).
	- foomatic-rip: Fixed pid_t/int function prototype mismatch
	  (Bug #1182).
	- Fixed --with-pdftops-path and --with-pdftocairo-path options
	  in ./configure (Bug #1181).
	- foomatic-rip: Do not use PATH_MAX for the length of static
	  strings which are supposed to hold a command line. Use our
	  own CMDLINE_MAX constant to set them to a length of 65535
	  bytes (Ubuntu bug #1019662, Debian bug #738440).
	- pdftops: Log command lines of renderer (Ghostscript, pdftops,
	  pdftocairo, acroread) and of pstops in CUPS' error_log (in
	  debug mode).

CHANGES IN V1.0.44

	- README: Documented the "hybrid" choice for the PDF renderer
	  in the pdftops filter.
	- pdftoippprinter: Handle missing Ghostscript/Poppler for all
	  output formats.
	- cups-browsed: Minor corrections in the error messages.
	- gstopxl: Support for PPD-less printing. Resolution,
	  InputSlot, Duplex, and ColorModel are set also without PPD
	  file now.
	- Added another sample PPD file for a native PDF printer,
	  Fuji_Xerox-DocuPrint_CM305_df-PDF.ppd. Thanks to Adrian
	  Johnson for contributing this PPD file.

CHANGES IN V1.0.43

	- cups-browsed: When automatically setting up a PPD-less print
	  queue for an IPP network printer add make/model info as an
	  additional "make-and-model" command line option to the call
	  of the pdftoippprinter filter, this way filters can do
	  make/model-specific exceptions (quirk rules).
	- pdftopdf: Take page size from the command line if not
	  already given by the PPD file, this way
	  "fitplot"/"fit-to-page" also works with PPD-less printing.
	- libcupsfilters: cupsRasterParseIPPOptions() did not set
	  sRGB color space.
	- libcupsfilters: cupsRasterParseIPPOptions() did not set
	  Tumble with "Duplex=DuplexTumble".
	- pdftopdf: Fixed software copy generation logic for printers
	  with hardware copy generation, but without collate support
	  (Ubuntu bug #1259240).
	- pdftops: Let Ghostscript output PostScript level 3 also for
	  PPD-less printing, but not for HP lasers or when make/model
	  info is not supplied.
	- cups-browsed: removed duplicate definition of ippSetVersion.
	- foomatic-rip: Take PATH_MAX constant from limits.h if
	  available instead defining it's own version conflicting with
	  kfreebsd. Thanks to Peter Green for the patch (Debian bug
	  #731658).
	- pdftops: Ignore "landscape", "orientation-requested",
	  "fit-to-page", and any page geometry options. The first two
	  do not make sense on PDF input and therefore should only be
	  used in ...topdf filters used before pdftopdf, the others
	  are already taken care of by pdftopdf so that pdftops gets
	  pages with print-ready page geometry.
	- pdftops: Added "-nocenter" to the call of "pdftops
	  -origpagesizes" (Poppler/freedesktop.org bug #72312,
	  comments #6 and #7).
	- pdftopdf: If there is no PPD file or no
	  "*LandscapeOrientation:" keyword in the PPD file, rotate
	  counterclockwise, not clockwise to fit a landscape-oriented
	  page on a portrait-oriented sheet (See
	  Poppler/freedesktop.org bug #72312, comment #6).
	- pstopdf: Support for the "landscape" and
	  "orientation-requested" options (Ubuntu bug #1243484).
	- pdftops: Support for PPD-less printing on PostScript
	  printers: duplex, resolution, input tray, color mode, and
	  make/model (for quirk rules) can now be supplied by the
	  command line, pdftopdf takes care of the page geometry.
	- libcupsfilters: cupsRasterParseIPPOptions() allows
	  specifying resolutions without unit now, assuming dpi then
	  (example: "600x600").
	- Fixed "--with-cups-rundir" and "--with-cups-domainsocket" 
	  options in configure (Bug #1174).
	- pdftops: After fixing the output of rotated PDF pages
	  (usually landscape-oriented pages rotated by pdftopdf) in
	  Poppler (Poppler/freedesktop.org bug #72312) corrected the
	  use of "pdftops -origpagesizes" in pdftops appropriately
	  (Red Hat bug #768811).

CHANGES IN V1.0.42

	- pdftoippprinter: Check also the presence of Ghostscript and
	  use pdftoraster if Ghostscript is missing.
	- gstoraster: At build time use the path for Ghostscript which
	  our build system already finds for pdftops.
	- pdftoraster: Take into account rotate field in PDF header,
	  when pdftopdf rotates a page to fit the paper it sets the
	  rotate field and does not swap the width and height entries.
	- pdftoippprinter: Made PCL 5c/e printing working correctly,
	  by first adding support for unprintable margins and
	  defaulting to 12pt margins if no margin info is supplied,
	  and second, by doing color printing always in RGB color
	  space.
	- rastertopclx: Improved support for PPD-less printing,
	  allowing color printing with (s)RGB color space. Output is
	  in sRGB then.
	- rastertopclx: Determine page size and select correct PCL
	  command for the page size more reliably, especially for
	  landscape-oriented pages.
	- gstoraster, pdftoraster: Do correct PWG Raster output, allow
	  switching to PWG Raster via "media-class=PwgRaster" option
	  and CUPS Raster via "media-class=". Default for PPD-less
	  printing is PWG Raster.
	- gstoraster, pdftoraster: Support applying unprintable
	  margins for PPD-less mode with CUPS Raster output.
	- libcupsfilters: Added support for "media-left-margin",
	  "media-right-margin", "media-bottom-margin", and
	  "media-top-margin" IPP options to specify unprintable
	  margins in 1/100th of a mm, to allow PPD-less printing with
	  unprintable margins (esp. PCL 5c/e with rastertopclx).
	- libcupsfilters: Do not set "MediaClass" to "PwgRaster" when
	  we request a CUPS Raster header and not a PWG Raster header.
	- libcupsfilters: Fixed typo in a debug message in the colord
          support part.
	- cupsfilters.convs: Corrected cost factor of
	  vnd.cups-postscript -> vnd.cups-raster conversion with
	  gstoraster, so that input data of the type
	  application/vnd.adobe-reader-postscript is converted
	  correctly (not via pstotiff). Thanks to Tim Waugh from Red
	  Hat for this patch
	- cups-browsed: Fixed several memory leaks by adding missing
	  free() calls and removing an unneeded strdup(). Thanks to
	  Jaromir Koncicky from Red Hat for the patch (Red Hat bug
	  #1027317).
	- Backends parallel and serial: Fixed logical expressions for
	  error handling (Bug #1172).
	- libcupsfilters: Moved filter/colord.[ch] into the library as
	  this code is now used by both gstoraster and foomatic-rip.
	- libcupsfilters: Made the names of the flags to tell that the
	  header is already included unique in all API header files.
	- foomatic-rip: Moved foomatic-rip's upstream home from the
	  foomatic-filters package to cups-filters, to make it easier
	  for distributions to ship and maintain a complete printing
	  stack and also to make upstream maintenance and development
	  easier.
	- foomatic-rip: Removed support for all the non-CUPS printing
	  environments as they are discontinued upstream. Now
	  foomatic-rip only works as a CUPS filter and in a spooler-less
	  direct mode, where the latter is mainly for testing and
	  debugging. Thanks to Anshul Kushwaha (anshulkushwaha1 at gmail
	  dot com) for doing this as a Google Summer of Code 2013 project.
	- foomatic-rip: Eliminated compiler warnings.
	- foomatic-rip: fixed "endswith()" string utility function.
	- foomatic-rip: Removed unneeded HAVE_DBUS conditionals.
	- gstoraster: Fixed build system for gstoraster use D-Bus for
	  colord support.
	- libcupsfilters: Recognize more Adobe-generated CMYK JPEGs to
	  take into account their inverted colors (Bug #1169).
	- pdftopdf: When checking whether double-sided printing is
	  chosen, do not only check for the choice names "DuplexNoTumble"
	  and "DuplexTumble" but also for "LongEdge", "ShortEdge",
	  "Top", and "Bottom", as CUPS does (Bug #1167).

CHANGES IN V1.0.41

	- cups-browsed: Added support for automatic PPD-less setup of
	  print queues for IPP printers discovered on the network via
	  Bonjour. Supported are printers with known languages (PWG
	  Raster, PDF, PostScript, PCL XL, PCL 5c/e), especially also
	  IPP Everywhere printers. This functionality is especially
	  ment for mobile devices to be able to print without printer
	  setup tool and without printer driver/PPD collection.
	- cups-browsed: Fixed a Valgrind-reported issue.
	- pdftoippprinter: New filter for PPD-less printing. The filter
	  will be configured as System-V interface script for a print
	  queue for a discovered IPP network printer generated by
	  cups-browsed.
	- rastertopclx: Added support for PPD-less printing. Without
	  PPD the filter generates PCL 5e.
	- cups-browsed: Fixed socket leaks in recent IPP subscriptions
	  changes. Thanks to Tim Waugh from Red Hat for the patch (Red
	  Hat bug #1021512).

CHANGES IN V1.0.40

	- pdftops: Introduced new "hybrid" renderer: Here usually
	  Ghostscript is used, but if the printer is a Brother,
	  Minolta, or Konica Minolta Poppler's pdftops gets used. This
	  is a quirk rule to work around bugs in the PS interpreters
	  of the printers.
	- Fixed format string issues and added __attribute__ wording
	  to printf-like functions to catch any regressions. Thanks to
	  Tim Waugh from Red Hat for the patch.

CHANGES IN V1.0.39

	- pdftops: Fix for landscape PDF handling. Do not use the
	  command line options "-origpagesizes" and
	  "-choosePaperByPDFPageSize" of Poppler's pdftops utility on
	  already processed PDF data. Thanks to Tim Waugh from Red Hat
	  for the patch.
	- cups-browsed: Improve the efficiency of BrowsePoll by using
          IPP notifications when possible. It falls back to the
          previous behaviour if it is not possible to use this
          optimization. Thanks to Tim Waugh from Red Hat for the patch.

CHANGES IN V1.0.38

	- pdftops: Added "-dNOINTERPOLATE" to the Ghostscript command line
	  for quicker processing of embedded bitmaps.
	- pstopdf: Added "-dUseCIEColor" to the Ghostscript command line
	  to assure compatibility with newer Ghostscript versions (9.08
	  and newer).

CHANGES IN V1.0.37

	- Added example configuration files for systemd and Upstart. Thanks
	  to Tom Chvtal for the systemd file.
	- Build system: Make sure that gstoraster gets linked against the
	  libcupsfilters of the currently built package and not of the
	  system. Thanks to Tom Chvtal.
	- cupsfilters.convs: Reworked the cost factors of the filters to
	  avoid bogus filter chains like pstotiff|imagetopdf instead of
	  pstopdf|pdftopdf for PostScript->PDF. Thanks to Tim Waugh from
	  Red Hat for the report.
	- pdftopdf: Accept additional command line options for PPD-less
	  printing.
	- cups-browsed: Fixed building with CUPS 1.5.x and older,
	  ippSetVersion() was missing under the accessor function definitions
	  for backward compatibility.

CHANGES IN V1.0.36

	- Fixed libdl detection in configure. Thanks to Andreas Huettel and
	  Yuta Satoh (Gentoo bug #478642).
	- cups-browsed: Allow BrowsePoll operation also access print queues
	  on older CUPS servers. Thanks to David Mohr for the patch.
	- cups-browsed: Assure that it always applies to the local CUPS
	  daemon and never to a remote one specified via client.conf
	  (Ubuntu bug #1207203).
	- pdftoopvp, pdftoijs, pdftoraster, bannertopdf: Made code working
	  with Poppler 0.24.x (Bug #1144).
	- gstoraster: Silenced compiler warnings.
	- gstoraster, pdftoraster: Added support for PPD-less printing
	  controlled by IPP attributes (CUPS 1.7.x+ only).
	- gstoraster, gstopxl: Moved these filters from Ghostscript to
	  cups-filters as upstream home.
	- libcupsfilters: Added new cupsRasterParseIPPOptions() API
	  function for PPD-less printing controlled by IPP attributes
	  (raster.h, CUPS 1.7.x+ only).
	- pdftopdf: Added support for page labels. "page-label" option and
	  "CLASSIFICATION" environment variable. Thanks to Tim Waugh from
	  Red Hat for the patch.
	- pdftops: If one or more of the PDF-to-PS renderers (Ghostscript,
	  Poppler pdftops, Poppler pdftocairo, acroread) is not installed
	  at build time, pre-fill the appropriate executable's path with the
	  executable name to allow the use of this renderer when it gets
	  installed later (Debian bug #716842).
	- cups-browsed: Do not resolve host names of remote printers discovered 
	  via CUPS broadcasts (Bug #1141).
	- Added man pages for cups-browsed and cups-browsed.conf. Thanks to
	  Brian Potkin for the contribution (Debian bug #714460).
	- Install also escp.h, it is useful for .drv files.

CHANGES IN V1.0.35

	- pdftoraster: Silenced compiler warning (Bug #1092).
	- bannertopdf: Fixed typo which prevented the host name to be shown
	  (Bug #1115).
	- README: Fixed info about the PPD keyword cupsManualCopies (Bug
	  #1086).
	- Modified the cost factors of the filters to avoid unneeded PDF
	  conversion detours when the input data is PostScript. Instead of
	  pstopdf->pdftopdf->pdftops and pstopdf->pdftopdf->gstoraster we
	  get pstops and pstops->gstoraster now (Bug #1138).
	- pdftops: Added experimental support for pdftocairo as PDF renderer.
	  Note that PostScript level 1 output and PDF input with color
	  spaces other than DeviceRGB, DeviceGray, sRGB or sGray is not
	  supported. PDFs generated by Cairo (for example when printing from
	  evince) uses only supported color spaces. Thanks to James Cloos
	  for the patch (Bug #1139).
	- cups-browsed: Changed default of browsing protocols fron none to
	  both DNS-SD and CUPS.
	- pdftops: Let Poppler generally generate PostScript level 3 if the
	  PPD identifies the printer as PS3 printer, make an exception of
	  sending PostScript Level 2 only for HP's laser printers, to not
	  compromise print quality and performance on all PS3 printers only
	  due to some buggy HP models (Debian bug #712949, see also Ubuntu bug
	  #277404).
	- Install pcl.h, it is needed by cupsfilters.drv. Thanks to Jiri
	  Popelka from Red Hat for the patch (Bug #1133).
	- Make cups-filters building with automake 1.13. Thanks to Andreas K.
	  Huettel (dilfridge) on IRC.
	- libcupsfilters, libfontembed, pdftopdf, texttopdf, cups-browsed:
	  Fixed several resource leaks and other problems. Thanks to Jiri
	  Popelka from Red Hat for the patches (Bug #1116).

CHANGES IN V1.0.34

	- cups-browsed: Fixed build with OpenBSD (Bug #1103).
	- pdftopdf: Enabled hardware copy generation, if available.
	- pdftopdf: Fixed evenDuplex logic.
	- cups-browsed: If a queue left over from the last session
	  gets confirmed, fill in the data structure with the Bonjour
	  parameters, also update the Bonjour parameters if a local
	  queue is upgraded from IPP to IPPS.

CHANGES IN V1.0.33

	- cups-browsed: Added NULL check (Bug #1106).

CHANGES IN V1.0.32

	- cups-browsed: Shared algorithm to generate local queues based on
	  browsed remote queue data between Bonjour and CUPS browsing, as the
	  simpler method used for CUPS browsing could overwrite local print
	  queues and had de-duplication problems, for example if the server
	  appears on two IPs in the network (connected by both ethernet and
	  WLAN).
	- cups-browsed: CUPS broadcasting also broadcasted non-shared,
	  especially cups-browsed-generated printers. Switched to detection
	  of non-shared printers by the appropriate bit in the printer-type
	  bit field IPP attribute.
	- cups-browsed: Made CUPS broadcasting work also without BrowseAllow
	  lines in cups-browsed.conf. In this case we accept all remote
	  printers (Ubuntu bug #1163764).
	- README: Updated documentation for cups-browsed.
	- Added more comments and examples to /etc/cups/cups-browsed.conf.
	- cups-browsed: Added support for "...:<port>" extensions of
	  BrowsePoll addresses. Thanks to Tim Waugh from Red Hat (Ubuntu
	  bug 1159213).

CHANGES IN V1.0.31

	- cups-browsed: cups-browsed removed valid local queues pointing to
	  remote queues when cups-browsed did not shut down cleanly after
	  the previous session, leaving the user with missing local accessor
	  queues for some of the remote CUPS queues (Ubuntu bug #1131149).
	- Fixed build system to allow parallel or multilib builds. Thanks to
	  Timo Gurr for the patch (Bug #1104).
	- pdftopdf: Improved error output.
	- pdftopdf: getRotation now handles unusual cases more graceful
	  (probably fixes Ubuntu Bug #1154318).
	- Fixed build system to allow building without Avahi. In this case
	  a cups-browsed with only CUPS broadcasting/browsing will get
	  built. Thanks to Tim Waugh from Red Hat (Bug #1101, Bug #1102).

CHANGES IN V1.0.30

	- cups-browsed: Do not remove a generated local print queue when
	  it was made the system default printer (Ubuntu bug #1146407).
	- texttopdf: Fixed corrupted pdf when a utf-8 title is given and
	  corresponding crash with 'prettyprint' (Ubuntu Bug #1137438).
	- cups-browsed: Added CUPS Broadcasting for sharing local printers
	  to remote CUPS clients with CUPS 1.5.x and older. Thanks to Tim
	  Waugh from Red Hat.
	- cups-browsed: Added sample config-file and build-time default
	  setting options. Thanks to Tim Waugh from Red Hat.
	- cups-browsed: Added CUPS browsing and BrowsePoll functionality, to
	  be backwards compatible to CUPS 1.5.x and older servers. Thanks
	  to Tim Waugh from Red Hat.
	- pdftopdf: Fixed incorrect evenDuplex page insertion (Bug #1088).
	- pdftoopvp: Let it build with Poppler 0.22.x. Thanks to Koji Otani
	  from BBR Inc. (Bug #1089).

CHANGES IN V1.0.29

	- Fixed ./configure option "--with-rcdir=no". Thanks to Jiri
	  Popelka from Red Hat (Bug #1091).

CHANGES IN V1.0.28

	- cups-browsed: Do not create CUPS queues for shared local CUPS
	  printers.

CHANGES IN V1.0.27

	- cups-browsed: The daemon crashed if there is no local CUPS queue
	  at all. Fixed.

CHANGES IN V1.0.26

	- Some fixes in README and INSTALL.
	- cups-browsed: Added daemon to browse the Bonjour broadcasts of
	  shared remote CUPS printers and automatically add local raw queues
	  pointing to them, to resemble the behavior of the former CUPS
	  broadcasting/browsing which was dropped in CUPS 1.6. Now remote
	  printers appear as local print queues as before, but with the
	  standardized Bonjour broadcasting.
	- "make dist" got broken in 1.0.25. Fixed.

CHANGES IN V1.0.25

	- urftopdf: Newly added filter to convert the URF format which (at
	  least some) iOS apps send when printing via AirPrint (Bug #1076).
	- pdftopdf: pdfautorotate functionality has been patched directly 
	  into pdftopdf (Bug #1080).
	- pdftopdf: "mirror" produced only empty pages (XObjects not there).
	- pdftopdf: Fixed segfault on "page-ranges=1-2147483647" (from cups).
	- pdftopdf: Fixed collate filler insertion.
	- texttopdf: Fixed deficient string escaping (Bug #1071).
	- pdftoopvp: Get correct byte order definition when building under
	  OpenBSD (Bug #1070).
	- serial backend: Added check for sys/ioctl.h to configure.ac (Bug
	  #1069).
	- pdftopdf: Made code building under OpenBSD (Bug #1068).
	- pdftopdf: Don't expect too much C++11 support for now (Bug #1067).

CHANGES IN V1.0.24

        - pdftopdf now generates the necessary pdf comments to disable 
          duplicate number-up when pdftops is also applied (Bug #1063).
	- pdftops: Added support for using Adobe Reader (acroread) in command
	  line mode for turning PDF to PostScript (Bug #1065).
	- pdftopdf: Fix build on OpenBSD (Bug #1062).
	- pdftops: Fix stripping of page management options from the pstops
	  command line which got already applied by pdftopdf. If the name
	  of the option to be removed is contained in the name of a option
	  in the command line (like "number-up" in "number-up-layout" or
	  "scaling" in "Natural-scaling"), this option gets stripped instead
	  of the correct option (Bug #1064).

CHANGES IN V1.0.23

	- Removed filter/pdftopdf.old
	- Fixed the requires.private for cupsfilters lib

CHANGES IN V1.0.22

	- Added missing *.h files of filter/pdftopdf/ to source file list so
	  that "make dist" builds correct upstream tarballs.

CHANGES IN V1.0.21

	- bannertopdf: Page duplication routine fixed.
	- bannertopdf: Fixed invalid output of a direct stream object.
	- pdftopdf filter replaced by new QPDF-based filter from Tobias
	  Hoffmann's Google Summer of Code project. The former Poppler-based
	  pdftopdf duplicated a lot of Poppler's code. The old filter is
	  still in the package as pdftopdf.old with source code in
	  filter/pdftopdf.old. It will be removed in a later release.
	- Added most recent contributors to AUTHORS and COPYING files.

CHANGES IN V1.0.20

	- pdftops: Added another workaround for Kyocera printers: Some
	  models get very slow on images which request interpolation,
	  so now we remove the image interpolation requests by additional
	  PostScript code only inserted for Kyocera printers (Ubuntu bug
	  #1026974).
	- pdftops: The build system only configured the default renderer
	  (Ghostscript OR Poppler), not the other renderer, but as we support
	  switching on runtime both need to get configured.
	- Improved portability of the package to non-Linux systems (Bug #1056).
	- Made the Poppler-based filters pdftopdf and pdftoopvp build with
	  both Poppler 0.18.x and 0.20.x (Bug #1055).
	- Let build system check for dlopen.

CHANGES IN V1.0.19

	- Fixes according to Coverity scan results (Bug #1054).
	- Added distribution packaging instructions to INSTALL.
	- Switched build system to autotools. This especially fixes several
	  build problems in Gentoo. Also build-tested with CUPS 1.6.0b1.
	- Fixes for compatibility with clang/gcc-4.7.
	- textonly: Filter did not work as a pipe with copies=1 (Bug #1032).
	- texttopdf: Avoid trimming the results of FcFontSort(), as this may
	  miss some reasonable candidates under certain circumstances. BTW,
	  fix passing a non-pointer as a pointer to "result" (Debian bug
	  #670055),
	- Corrected documentation. The option for the maximum image rendering
	  resolution in pdftops is "pdftops-max-image-resolution", not
	  "pdftops-max-image-resolution-default".

CHANGES IN V1.0.18

	- Modified "./configure" options related to the pdftops filter to
	  allow changing the defaults for the renderer being used by default
	  (Ghostscript or Poppler) and the maximum image rendering resolution
	  and to supply paths for both Ghostscript's gs and Poppler's pdftops.
	- pdftops: Allow selection whether Ghostscript or Poppler is used
	  at runtime, setting the "pdftops-renderer" option to "gs" or
	  "pdftops".
	- pdftops: Allow setting an upper limit for the image rendering
	  resolution, also at runtime, setting the option
	  "pdftops-max-image-resolution" to the desired limit in dpi.
	  "0" means no limit.
	- pdftops: Fixed crash by wrong usage of sizeof() function when adding
	  "Collate" to the fifth command line argument for the "pstops" CUPS
	  filter call (Ubuntu bug #982675).
	- pdftops: Removed newline from copies value when reading it from
	  the "%%PDFTOPDFNumCopies" entry of the incoming PDF file.
	- pdftops: Silenced compiler warning about ignoring the return
	  value of the write() function.
	- pdftops: Added a crash guard.
	- pdftops: Start determining the printing resolution with
	  cupsRasterInterpretPPD(), this is the most reliable as often
	  the choice names of the "Resolution" option are marketing names
	  with higher numerical values than the actual resolution. Also
	  ignore error exit values of cupsRasterInterpretPPD() as the
	  function can error out after having found the resolution.
	- pdftops: If printing resolution is determined by
          cupsRasterInterpretPPD() do not stick on 100 dpi if the
	  resolution cannot be determined (Ubuntu bug #984082).

CHANGES IN V1.0.17

	- pdftopdf: Fixed segmentation fault when printing selected pages
	  ("page-ranges" option, Ubuntu bug #980673).

CHANGES IN V1.0.16

	- pdftopdf: Fixed segmentation faults when using N-up with certain PDF
	  files (Ubuntu bug #980673) and when calling pdftopdf manually without
          specifyting a PPD file.

CHANGES IN V1.0.15

	- pdftops: Suppress image compression only for Brother printers as they
	  really need this measure to print at all. This accelerates printer-
	  internal job processing on most other printers (tested on HP and
	  Kyocera). Also suppress page compression on Kyocera printers, this
	  works around a bug in Kyocera's PostScript interpreters which makes
	  printing pages with images very slow (Ubuntu bug #977912).

CHANGES IN V1.0.14

	- pdftops: Determine printing resolution from the PPD file and supply
	  it on the Ghostscript or pdftops (Poppler) command line, so that
	  the renderer does the image rendering with a resolution matching the
	  printer's resolution. This avoids too slow processing of the jobs
	  by the printer's built-in PostScript interpreter. In addition
	  a default resolution of 300 dpi is used for PPDs without any hint
	  of the printer's resolution, as most PostScript lasers use multiples
	  of 300 dpi as resolution (Ubuntu bug #977912).

CHANGES IN V1.0.13

	- bannertopdf: Fix display of the job dates on the test page and on
	  banner pages (Ubuntu bug #975064).

CHANGES IN V1.0.12

	- Fixed crash of imagetopdf filter when it is called manually
	  without supplying a valid PPD file (Ubuntu bug #973564).

CHANGES IN V1.0.11

	- Actually install the Generic PDF printer PPD file.
	- Really introduce a Generic PDF printer PPD file.

CHANGES IN V1.0.10

	- Added Generic PPD file for native PDF printers.
	- Updated all code copied from Poppler to the current state of Poppler.
	- Made Poppler-based PDF filters building with various versions of
	  Poppler.
	  
CHANGES IN V1.0.9

	- Deactivated NIME conversion rules which are not used by the PDF-
	  based printing workflow.
	- Cleaned up sample PPD file HP-Color_LaserJet_CM3530_MFP-PDF.ppd.
	- imagetopdf: Added support for native PDF printers.
	- imagetopdf, imagetoraster: Let image input "scale to fit"
	  by default. This makes photo printing via AirPrint work,
	  as the iOS devices send JPEG but do not allow setting options.

CHANGES IN V1.0.8

	- pdftops: Generally do not compress fonts and images, and
	  also do not do CCITT compression for bitmap glyphs to make
	  the PostScript output more compatible with buggy PostScript
	  interpreters. The output gets 30-50% longer but will work on
	  many more different printer models. Problems were also
	  discovered on HP and not only on Brother (Ubuntu bug
	  #960666).

CHANGES IN V1.0.7

	- pdftops: Added PostScript debug mode. For jobs sent with "-o psdebug"
	  the PostScript output by Ghostscript does not have compression of
	  pages and fonts, so that one can analyse the PostScript code,
	  especially in cases of incompatibilities and bugs of the built-in
	  PostScript interpreters of printers. Thanks to the Ghostscript
	  upstream developers for this hint.

CHANGES IN V1.0.6

	- texttopdf: Fixed minor miscalculation of /AvgWidth.
	- texttopdf: Added support for direct file references in pdf.utf-8.
	- pdftops: Added another workaround for a bug in Brother's PostScript
	  interpreter: Suppress CCITT compression for bitmap glyphs and
	  images on Brother printers (Ubuntu bug #955553).
	- texttopdf: Fixed typo in pdf font descriptor dictionary keys.
	- Fixed ColorDevice definition in cupsfilters.drv for HP DesignJet
	  printers.
	- Put ModelNumber entries in cupsfilters.drv at the right place to
	  get correct "*cupsModelNumber:" entries in the PPDs for the HP
	  DesignJet printers.
	- rastertopclx: Code of JCL options did not get inserted into the JCL
	  header.
	- parallel backend: Use the same way as CUPS does to prevent an
	  infinite loop on side channel errors (CUPS STR #4044).
	- pdftopdf: Added support for native PDF printers, add JCL (PJL) 
	  options and send page_log entries only if the PDF has the
	  "*JCLToPDFInterpreter:" keyword.
	- Updated README.txt for the new native PDF printer support.
	- Added a sample PPD file for a native PDF printer,
	  HP-Color_LaserJet_CM3530_MFP-PDF.ppd.
	- texttopdf: A lot of internal rework; also split up into more files
	- texttopdf: Fixed many bugs on the way
	- texttopdf: Added support for CFF-flavoured OTFs; for these
          subsetting is not yet implemented, full embedding is done instead
	- texttopdf: Adapted and improved fontconfig font selection
	- Make sure that "make clean" and "make distclean" also work if
	  Makedefs does not exist (Debian bug #663564).

CHANGES IN V1.0.5

	- pdftops: Added insertion of workaround PostScript code for printers
	  with bugs in their PS interpreters (Ubuntu bugs #950713, #951627).
	- parallel backend: Break infinite loop (Ubuntu bug #936647).
	- texttopdf: Complete the implementation of fontconfig-based font
	  selection (Debian bug #663070).

CHANGES IN V1.0.4

	- texttopdf: Fall back to altermative fonts via fontconfig if the
	  FreeMono TrueType fonts are not installed (Debian bugs #495598
	  and #662660).
	- bannertopdf: Fix off-by-one error in page duplication
	- bannertopdf: Put indirect references to streams into the page's
	  contents
	- bannertopdf: Let byte offsets for the Xref table of the PDF output
	  being determined correctly also when the output goes to stdout
	  (Ubuntu bug #939735).
	- bannertopdf: Output multiple copies of the test page if duplex
	  and/or N-up is chosen, to let the test page appear on all possible
	  positions of the sheet (Ubuntu bug #939530).

CHANGES IN V1.0.3

	- bannertopdf: Draw the frame to mark the non-printable borders 1pt
	  smaller all around to assure that it is always visible, like it was
	  done in bannertops.
	- bannertopdf: Scale the page to fit onto the desired output page.
	- bannertopdf: Get and output the correct media limits.

CHANGES IN V1.0.2

	- bannertopdf: Fixed crash caused by wrong Poppler API use.
	- bannertopdf: Info text on test page came out in gray and not in
	  black.

CHANGES IN V1.0.1

	- Added the textonly filter and its PPD file, a driver for text-only
	  printers.
	- Install the pdftoijs sample PPD file
	  HP-PhotoSmart_Pro_B8300-hpijs-pdftoijs.ppd
	- Added cupsfilters.drv, centralized ppdc-based PPD generator for the
	  printer driver filters in this package. Current printers supported
	  are several HP DesignJet large format inkjet printers.
	- Fixed "make uninstall". Now everything of this package gets removed.
	- Added wrapper scripts texttops and imagetops for backward
	  compatibility to third-party PPD files or custom configurations
	  which refer to these filters explicitly (Debian bug #658258).

CHANGES IN V1.0

	- Built the pdftops filter based on Ghostscript by default, as
	  Ghostscript is better optimized for print output (Ubuntu bug
	  #926068).
	- If the pdftops filter is built for using Poppler, let Poppler not
	  emit PostScript level 3, as this causes problems with some HP
	  printers (Ubuntu bug #277404, Freedesktop (Poppler) bug #19640).
	- bannertopdf needs to be linked with C++ (bug #995)
	- Added test.sh script for testing texttopdf
	- Added original documentation of the PDF filters to README.txt
	- Install C header files and the static library
	- General clean-up of "make install" targets in Makefiles
	- Raised MIME conversion cost factor of pdftoraster from 66 to 100 to
	  give priority to the gstoraster filter from Ghostscript, as this
	  filter supports ICC-profile-based color management.
	- Documentation updated because libijs, liblcms, freetype, and
          fontconfig are needed to build this package

CHANGES IN V1.0b1

	- Removed the bannertops, imagetops, and texttops filters, they are
	  not needed any more in the PDF-based printing workflow
	- Added support for liblcms2
	- Named the package "OpenPrinting CUPS Filters"
	- Renamed libcupslegacy to libcupsfilters
	- Joined pdftops and cpdftocps filters into one C program
	- Added new bannertopdf filter from Lars Uebernickel:
	  https://launchpad.net/bannertopdf
	- Added the filters for the PDF-based printing workflow, from
	  OpenPrinting: http://sourceforge.jp/projects/opfc/ and
	  http://www.openprinting.org/download/printing/pdf-printing/
	- Initial packaging of files that are no longer included in CUPS 1.6
	  from CUPS upstream (http://www.cups.org/)
